I saw an HN submission linking to a [terminal flashcard program](https://github.com/TBS1996/speki). I can certainly derive ideas from it, particularly the card dependencies and the incremental reading. I will save the card dependency for a later thought. The github repo links to [an article](https://www.masterhowtolearn.com/2019-08-06-supermemos-incremental-reading-explained/) which I will refer to in this discussion.

In a brief description, incremental reading uses spaced repetition to help digest a (potentially) difficult reading material, by means of breaking down the text into several pieces, where each piece will be scheduled for reading at different times.

I should start by saying I am quite skeptical of this idea, not just because I have my doubts on using spaced repetition for every facet of learning. My primary disagreement is that chunking a material into segragated pieces will result in a poor, disjointed overall comprehension of the core ideas from a reading material, especially for really long ones, like books. I should know, that's similar to how I read books, and it's a very inefficient way of extracting the essential ideas (assuming I haven't completely dropped it or lost interest for something else). I mean, this could work if I have nothing else to do or think about in between, but that is a very rare circumstance that I or anyone else would be in. 

```
Wait a minute, isn't that how books are used in schools? I guess my point doesn't apply to textbooks and workbooks. Or does it?
```

But what would I know, there's a quote by some with a PhD in Mathematics that validates incremental reading. My points bear no weight if academic background is considered. Why even bother, if a proven smart person says it, it must be true!

Yeah, I wish I was that naive and oblivious. No really, my life would be a lot simpler if I just defer my thinking to reliable purveyors of wisdom and knowledge. More seriously, the default action would be indeed to put trust on reputed or credentialed individuals. But if the trusted sources is in conflict with my own experience, specifically on a subject I have done my own reading and  thinking, I would of course reasonably put trust first and foremost on my own experience. Which is not to say I would not trust anything else. If there solid, well-made convincing arguments that overrides my own beliefs and arguments, then of course I would reconcile my own views as well.

To conclude my rather defensive epistemological stance, put simply, I would not blindly trust someone who has PhD and uses his own experience to recommend which learning methods are effective. PhD people are, by implicit definition, outliers--these are big brained fuckers who most likely do well despite what flimsy study methods they would use. So if a Phd Math guy has positive experience with incremental reading, it probably because he has exceptional memory and overall better neural hardware. Show me an average bloke who does well with incremental reading, then I'll reconsider.

---

That all said, incremental reading in itself is an interesting idea. I like how spaced repetition is creatively applied to different domains (except for advertisement though, that I can live without).

I will take inspiration from this creativity and try to create my own reading methods that builds upon this project. Actually, I have already previously thought about [[Graded readers|this before]], I will revisit and improve the idea here.

The reading method would go like this:
0. find a reading material to read (will be referred to as the text)
1. briefly scan the text, look for unfamiliar words or difficult phrases
    (alternatively, use a program that extracts all the words, and scan this word list instead)
2. create cards from the list of words or phrases from (1)
3. study these cards until proficient
4. read the text

These reading method should work well with any sufficiently difficult or unfamilar reading materials, like a philosophy book, a chapter from a textbook, or from a foreign language graded reader. In theory at least, I havent really tried it myself. But I am fairly confident in this method. I don't think it's original or anything, but so far I haven't read anything like this as far as I can tell.

On second thought, I think a book named how to learn (or how to read?) that describes a somewhat similar method. If I recall correctly, the method is to skim the book first once (fast, even understanding very little of it), then actually read the book the second time (slower, but more active reading).

I guess my method is arguably better in that the book or resource doesn't need an initial skimming, which may take some time, and that the method guarantees a better comprehension rate, compared to traditional reading method.


